We added this search button, now I want to animate it when we click it so that the places actually
are loaded nicely animated.
Now I did mention the official documentation which I strongly recommend checking out to dive really
deeply into animations because there is super much to it
but I'll also cover quite a lot of it here.
To understand react native animations, we have to understand how animations work in general, if our goal
is to make the button bigger and transparent,
we need to understand that the size of it and the transparency gradually increases.
Now that sounds super obvious but it means that we constantly need to update the style for both opacity
and the scale.
Now if we manually would do this, would be super hard and probably lead to very bad performance, react
native actually provides a hook into the native animations API and therefore can render high performance
animations and it makes it easy for us,
it makes it easy for us to control the values, the opacity and scale of an item should have at a given
moment. We control these values in the state
and I will actually play two animations,
the first is the remove animation when we remove the button,
so I'll name it removeAnim but the name is totally up to you.
I now need to import something from react native and that is the animated API,
this API here, removeAnim instantiates a new animated values, so animated.value,
this is such a value we can use on some styling property that it will be managed automatically by react.
We can then later start an animation and react will automatically over a time span defined by us change
that value as required for our animation.
You pass an argument to this constructor and that's the value with which you initialize that.
Now for removing my button, I plan on starting at the scale 1 and opacity 1,
so I start at
value 1 here but no worries,
you can also map these two different values so you don't have to define a dozen of values here
if you actually want to animate from scale 2 to 1 and from opacity 0 to 1 at the same time.
So I shall start at 1 here for removing this, then next thing we do is that in our place
search handler where we currently just switch the state,
I now want to play my animation,
the animation to remove the button. To do this, I'll remove this set state call and instead use the animated
API
and there, we got a couple of functions for different animation ways or ways of animating things,
the most important one is the timing function which allows you to define a timing over which the animation
will occur.
There also are other methods, alternatives to timing and you can find out more in the official documentation,
for example functions instead don't take a clear timing but try to play a physically correct animation.
Now here, I'm interested in timing though and that is the one you will probably use most often, now to timing
you pass the value
react should change automatically and that would be this state removeAnim.
Now no worries about passing this state, react will do this in an efficient way, it will not manipulate
your state in a way that would not be ok just because immutability is important and so on,
react native will take care about that.
The second argument here then configures the animation you want to play, here
you add to value, the value you want to animate to.
Now we started at value 1 here,
I want to animate to value zero, makes sense for me with opacity and so on
but again, you can also map this differently and I will show this later.
Now we can also set a duration and I'll set it to 500 milliseconds,
so the value here is an integer which specifies the duration in milliseconds
and one important setting is use native driver which you normally should set to true to hook into the
native animation driver which is more performant than doing this all in javascript.
Once you are done, you can call start and start will then simply, you guessed it, start the animation, with
that we're almost done with our first animation step,
now we just have to wrap the element we want to animate in a special view.
So let's go down to our content in the render function
and now I have to wrap the button which I want to animate.
You use the animated API and it exposes a special component, animated.view, wrap your to be animated value
with that component and then animated view
takes some extra set up or specifically it takes the style property. Now on style here,
you can use that dynamically managed value
you set up here in the state which will be updated by react native
depending on where in the animation you are,
so over the duration of 500 milliseconds in our case.
So here, style can take a javascript object of course and I now here want to animate the opacity,
the opacity that's the cool thing about the values I chose should indeed start
by one, the button is fully opaque, so non-transparent at the beginning but should end at zero,
so I can directly use that value. So I can set opacity equal to this state and then removeAnim, removeAnim
remember is created with that
and that is not a number actually
but if we use style on the animated view here and that is where we have to use it, it will automatically
pull out the important information from that property and style the opacity of the wrapped element.
So you can't use opacity this state removeAnim on another component and expect the same behavior,
it would fail because this is not a number,
it's animated view that knows what to do with that.
Now let's see what this does,
I saved the file and I will reload this page,
now let's go to find place and let's click the button. And you see the first blink was simply because
we have touchable opacity, you see thereafter it became transparent.
Now I also want to have it increase in size,
so besides changing the opacity, I'll also change transform
and there, you can use a special syntax, you can pass an array to transform to transform multiple values,
each is represented with a javascript object
and then for example you want to transform the scale,
you then just use this as a property in that object.
The scale
now could use this state removeAnim but since that moves from one to zero,
it would actually shrink,
let me show this to you. If we save this, we reload our application,
if I click the button, it now shrinks and becomes transparent.
Nice effect but I want to have the opposite one, now on removeAnim
you can call a couple of functions, that proves that it's not a number I guess, one important function is
interpolate,
this allows you to basically use the value which is managed by react, which moves from one to zero and
convert it to a different value for this property only. For that you specify the input range and
that is 0 to 1 for example and react native will figure out how to map this to your value,
of course the values you specify here should meet the values you really use,
like here we have one as a value and we move to zero.
So if we define an input range of zero to one, that works with the values we actually use.
You can then map this to an output range where you say ok if we reach zero, then I actually want to use
a value of 12 for this property, so for this scale, so whilst for opacity,
we want to use 0 if we reach zero because zero is transparent and that is what we want to have at the
end, here
I actually want to have bigger button.
so zero should equal 12, you could have picked 10 or whatever scale you want,
so here it will be 12 times as big and one should equal one,
so it should start at the default size. If you save this and you now reload the application and submit
this,
if you click the button it now grows towards you and fades out
and that's a nice effect,
and that's our first animation, animating the button.
Now the next animation is to fade in the list,
let's do this in the next lecture.